---
layout: single
title:  "Why I Decided to Start Blogging"
date:   10-06-2021
author_profile: true
category:
excerpt: "But in the end, I like to write, and writers must overcome these things or they will never be able to write something worthy."

---

I have always been an avid reader and writer since childhood. The Magic Tree House series, The Chronicles of Narnia, and anything by Rick Riordan filled my days with epic adventures and strange beings. But it wasn't until earlier this year of 2021 did I entertain myself with the idea of starting a blog. At that time, I had just become active on Goodreads and discovered the world of book reviews. I had also finished reading "How to Win at College" by Cal Newport, a book my father bought for me in lieu of of the uneasiness that comes with an only child's departure to college. In the two times I have read that book, I find that one of Newport's  most memorable tips is in chapter 27, "Write Outside of Class."

Despite my initial interest in starting a blog, I had no idea where to begin, so months passed with this idea left simmering on a backburner. It only became a reality when I started learning Python a few days ago. During my initial research phase as I navigated through swamps of learning resources, I stumbled upon the existence of Jekyll, a static site generator. My previous inhibitions of starting a website disappeared when I discovered that it was, in the summarized words of redditors, "simple, efficient, and secure." I could customize my website as I liked and manage my content by adding and editing markdown files, pushing the changes to my repository, and seeing my changes unfold online. As a college student, I was also attracted by the lack of a price tag attached to it.

So as I often do when I become interested in something, I immersed myself in the process of website building right away. Hours ticked by in the first day, then the second. I soon realized that perhaps it was easy for people who already had prior experience in programming, as the reddit group I got this impression from so happened to be populated with them. It was certainly easier than building a website from scratch. But for someone who only had a few days experience with Python, it was a bit of a learning process to say the least. Tabs crowded my laptop until I could no longer make out what each one was; error messages induced aggressive typing and frustration; YouTube videos, Stack Overflow, and Google became my best friends. There even came a point that I did something that I couldn't reverse no matter how I tried, so I ended up uninstalling Ruby and redoing the entire process again. But it never crossed my mind that I should give up, mostly because this was something I desperately wanted to accomplish and partly because I wanted to be able to make a website for my father. In the end, as you can see, I did it! Of course, this is only the beginning.

Now as for the real reason why I was inspired to start a blog, it isn't true that I was enticed by the fact other people did it, or because some writer said I should to "win at college." It was also not about amassing a following or impressing other people. Instead, I wanted to create a safe space where I could share the things I did and the books I read—a place where I could document my improvements and struggles for myself to appreciate and for my future self to reflect on. Most importantly, I wanted to create a playground where I could improve on articulating my thoughts and expressing my unique views, respectfully yet unapologetically. Because for as long as I can remember, I have struggled with self doubt that my writing was not good enough, compelling enough, or articulate enough. I felt vulnerable whenever my teachers, classmates, family, or friends scrutinized my words and essays, as if I was one of those frogs my biology class dissected in tenth grade.

So like Newport suggested, I wish to improve my writing by practicing outside of class. But perhaps even more importantly, I wish to be able to write with confidence and learn how to embrace what my readers think yet not fear it. Criticism is never easy, even to the most experienced writers. Self doubt and anxiety is normal. But in the end, I like to write, and writers must overcome these things or they will never be able to write something worthy.