---
layout: single
title:  "Why I'm Starting a Blog"
date:   14-06-2021
author_profile: true
category:
excerpt: "June 14, 2021"
header:
  image: /assets/images/why-i'm-starting-a-blog.png
---
<p> </p>

<p>I have always been an avid reader and writer since childhood. The <i>Magic Tree House</i> series, <i>The Chronicles of Narnia</i>, and anything written by Rick Riordan filled my younger days with epic adventures and strange beings. But it wasn't until earlier this year of 2021 did I entertain myself with the idea of starting a blog, or any platform where I could express myself. At that time, I had become active on Goodreads and discovered the world of book reviews. I had also finished reading <i>How to Win at College</i> by Cal Newport, a book my father bought for me in lieu of of the uneasiness that comes with an only child's departure to college. In the two times I have read that book, I find that one of Newport's  most memorable tips is in chapter 27, "Write Outside of Class."</p>

<p>Despite my initial interest in starting a blog, I had no idea where to begin, so months passed with this idea left simmering on a backburner. It only became a reality when I started learning Python last week. During my initial research phase as I navigated through swamps of learning resources, I stumbled upon the existence of Jekyll, a static site generator, and discovered that it was, in the summarized words of redditors, "simple, efficient, and secure." I could customize my website as I liked and manage my content by adding and editing markdown files, pushing the changes to my repository, and seeing my changes unfold online. It seemed easy enough. As an incoming college student, I was also attracted by the fact that it was free.</p>

<p>So as I often do when I become interested in something, I immersed myself in the process of website building right away. But as the hours ticked by in the first day, then the second, I soon realized that perhaps Jekyll was a breeze for people who already had prior experience in programming, as the reddit group I got this impression from so happened to be populated with them. It was certainly easier than building a website from scratch. But for someone who only had a few days experience with Python, and only Python, it was a learning process to say the least. Tabs crowded my laptop until I could no longer make out what each one was; error messages induced aggressive typing and dumbfounded stares; YouTube videos, Stack Overflow, and Google became my best friends. There even came a point when I did something that I couldn't reverse no matter how I tried, so I ended up uninstalling the application and redoing the entire process again. I did this twice. But it never crossed my mind that I should give up because this was something I had made up my mind to accomplish, and also because I wanted to be able to make a website for my father. In the end, it took me a week to be satisfied with the content and aesthetics, and I'm sure I will learn more things in the future that I can apply to this website.</p>

<p>Now as for the real reason why I was inspired to start a blog, it isn't true that I was enticed by the fact that book bloggers did it, or because some writer said that I should to "win at college." It was also not about amassing a following or impressing other people. Instead, I wanted to create a safe space where I could share the things I did and the books I read—a place where I could document my improvements and struggles for my current self to appreciate and for my future self to reflect on. Most importantly, I wanted to create a playground where I could improve on articulating my thoughts and expressing my views amid the noise that so often influences what people <i>think</i> they think. And for as long as I can remember, I have struggled with self doubt that my writing was never good enough, whether that meant it wasn't articulate enough, compelling enough, or that it was too pretentious or too juvenile. I often felt vulnerable whenever my teachers, classmates, family, or friends scrutinized my words, as if I was one of those frogs my biology class dissected in tenth grade.</p>

<p>So like Newport suggested, it's true that I wish to improve my writing by practicing outside of class. But perhaps even more importantly, I wish to be able to write without timidness and learn how to embrace feedback yet not cower from it. Throughout this process, I will try to treat a bit of self doubt as a strength and asset, for it will allow me to consider multiple facets and see things objectively as much as possible. And I will try to overcome my anxiety and fears, or else I will never be able to write something worthy.</p>